# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 2.2019.1  
**Subject:** Definitions  
**Intent:** Define WCA terminology  
**Submitted by:** Board of Directors  
**Date:** January 1, 2019  

# Motion

Within WCA we use the following definitions for terminology.

<table>
  <thead>
    <tr>
      <th>Term</th>
      <th>Definition</th>
    </tr>
  </thead>
  <tbody>
    <tr>
      <td>Board Member</td>
      <td>A Member of the WCA Board of Directors.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Bylaws</td>
      <td>The Bylaws of the WCA.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Candidate Delegate</td>
      <td>An External Staff Member of the WCA who has been appointed by the WCA to perform the role of WCA Delegate.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Committee/Team</td>
      <td>A Committee/Team of the WCA that has been appointed by the WCA under the terms of the WCA Bylaws or any of the Motions. Leaders of Committees/Team are WCA Staff and rest of Committees/Team members are WCA External Staff.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Committee/Team Leader</td>
      <td>A Staff Member of the WCA who leads a WCA Committee/Team.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Committee/Team Member</td>
      <td>An External Staff Member of the WCA who performs activities for the WCA in a WCA Committee/Team.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Community</td>
      <td>The Community of the WCA as formed by all Staff, External Staff, Registered Speedcubers, and Partners.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Competition Organizer</td>
      <td>Persons who are responsible for the organization of a WCA Competition, as defined in the WCA Regulations.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Competition Staff</td>
      <td>Persons who are responsible for the operational procedures during a WCA Competition, as defined in the WCA Regulations.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Competitor</td>
      <td>A participant at a WCA Competition.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Continent</td>
      <td>A geographical area consisting of a group of countries, limited to: <br> Africa, Asia, Europe, North America, Oceania, South America.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Country</td>
      <td>A self-governing geographical area of the world recognized as an independent state by international law and international governmental bodies. <br> The Regulations contain the accepted list of countries.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Event</td>
      <td>A particular contest within a WCA Competition.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Code of Ethics</td>
      <td>The code of the WCA containing principles of ethical conduct.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>External Staff</td>
      <td>An appointed External Staff Member of the WCA who performs activities for the WCA.</td>
      <ul>
        <li>Candidate Delegate</li>
        <li>Committee/Team Member</li>
      </ul>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Full Delegate</td>
      <td>A Staff Member of the WCA who has been appointed by the WCA to perform the role of WCA Delegate.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Majority</td>
      <td>More than half of the valid votes.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Member with Voting Rights</td>
      <td>An appointed WCA Staff Member.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Officer</td>
      <td>
        <p>An appointed Officer of the WCA under the terms of the WCA Bylaws.</p>
        <ul>
          <li>Chair</li>
          <li>Executive Director</li>
          <li>Secretary</li>
          <li>Treasurer</li>
          <li>Vice-Chair</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Partner</td>
      <td>
        <p>An acknowledged person or party who is not a Staff Member or External Staff Member of the WCA, with whom the WCA works together for the Objectives of the WCA. This could be:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>Regional Organization</li>
          <li>Sponsor</li>
          <li>Competition Organizer</li>
          <li>Competition Staff</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Regional Organization</td>
      <td>An Organization that has been acknowledged by the WCA as a representative of the WCA in a region. <br> Regional Organizations are Partners of the WCA.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Registered Speedcuber</td>
      <td>A person who competed in one or more WCA Competitions. Registered Speedcubers have a personal WCA ID and have the role of Non-voting Member in WCA.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Regulations</td>
      <td>The Regulations of the WCA as approved for use in WCA Competitions.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Senior Delegate</td>
      <td>A WCA Staff Member and Full Delegate who has been appointed by the WCA to manage a group of WCA Delegates.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Speedcubing</td>
      <td>The sport of solving twisty puzzles.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Staff</td>
      <td>
        <p>An appointed Staff Member of the WCA.</p>
        <ul>
          <li>Director</li>
          <li>Officer</li>
          <li>Committee/Team Leader</li>
          <li>Senior Delegate</li>
          <li>Full Delegate</li>
        </ul>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Supermajority</td>
      <td>A majority of at least 2/3 of the valid votes.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Twisty puzzles</td>
      <td>Puzzles that are manipulated by twisting their mechanisms. Most famous of these puzzles is the Rubik’s Cube.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Valid Vote</td>
      <td>
        <p>A valid vote is a vote that conforms to all requirements of the involved vote/poll/election, excluding: Abstentions and blank votes do not count when determining a majority or a supermajority. <br> Valid votes, abstentions, and blank votes are counted to determine whether a quorum is met.</p>
        <ul>
          <li>unintelligible votes</li>
          <li>votes for more options than the number required</li>
          <li>votes delivered outside the required time frame</li>
        </ul>
        <p>Abstentions and blank votes do not count when determining a majority or a supermajority. <br> Valid votes, abstentions, and blank votes are counted to determine whether a quorum is met.</p>
      </td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>Voting Rights</td>
      <td>The right to vote in elections and approval processes as described in the Bylaws and Motions. These rights are given to appointed WCA Staff Members only.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>WCA</td>
      <td>World Cube Association.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>WCA Board</td>
      <td>The Board of Directors of the WCA.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>WCA Competition</td>
      <td>A competition acknowledged by the WCA Board, regulated by the Regulations, and overseen by a WCA Delegate.</td>
    </tr>
    <tr>
      <td>WCA Delegate</td>
      <td>A role defined in the Motions and in the WCA Regulations to oversee official WCA Competitions on behalf of the WCA. This role can be performed by Candidate Delegates (WCA External Staff) or Full Delegates (WCA Staff).</td>
    </tr>
  </tbody>
</table>

<style>
  table {
    border-collapse: collapse;
  }
  th, td {
    border: 1px black solid;
    vertical-align: top;
    padding: 8px;
  }
  tr > td:first-child {
    white-space: nowrap;
  }
</style>
