# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 4.2024.1  
**Subject:** WCA Board  
**Intent:** Rights and duties of the WCA Board other than those covered in the Bylaws  
**Submitted by:** WCA Board  
**Date:** August 1, 2024  

# Motion

The WCA Board of Directors is the leadership team of the WCA and its highest authority.

1. The WCA Board has the following duties:
   1. To guide, serve, and unite the WCA Community in accordance with the [WCA Motion : Objectives](wcadoc{documents/motions/03.2021.1 - Objectives.pdf}).
   2. To oversee, guide, and supervise all Staff of the WCA in accordance with the [WCA Motion : Objectives](wcadoc{documents/motions/03.2021.1 - Objectives.pdf}).
   3. To oversee, guide, and supervise all structural and day-to-day activities of the WCA in accordance with the [WCA Motion : Objectives](wcadoc{documents/motions/03.2021.1 - Objectives.pdf}).
   4. To oversee, guide, and supervise all relationships with Regional Organizations and Sponsors.
   5. To mobilize Staff, Regional Organizations, and Competition Organizers to organize WCA Competitions on local, national, continental, and world level, well distributed in time and geographical location, and to ensure the quality of WCA Competitions up to the maximum extent.
   6. To represent the WCA in dealings with other relevant organizations and with media.
   7. To negotiate or oversee the negotiation of all contracts on behalf of the WCA in consultation with the appropriate Committees.
   8. To be accountable for the finances of the WCA, to oversee financial management of the WCA, and to ensure the WCA has sufficient procedures and resources to meet its financial obligations and regulatory requirements in accordance with the [WCA Motion : Finances](wca{documents/motions/11.2023.1 - Finances.pdf}).
2. The WCA Board has the following rights:
   1. To amend the Bylaws and their Motions. Such rights must be exercised in accordance with [WCA Motion : Amendments of Bylaws and Motions](wcadoc{documents/motions/13.2022.1 - Amendments of Motions.pdf}).
   2. To approve amendments to the Regulations. Such rights must be exercised in accordance with [WCA Motion : Amendments of Regulations](wcadoc{documents/motions/14.2022.1 - Amendments of Regulations.pdf}).
   3. To establish and remove Committees or change their duties. Such rights must be exercised in accordance with the Motion relative to every Committee.
   4. To instate and remove Senior Delegates. Such rights must be exercised in accordance with [WCA Motion : Senior Delegates](wcadoc{documents/motions/09.2022.1 - Senior Delegates.pdf}).
   5. To instate and remove Regional Delegates. Such rights must be exercised in accordance with [WCA Motion : Regional Delegates](wcadoc{documents/motions/09.2021.2 - Regional Delegates.pdf}).
   6. To suspend or take other sanctions against Registered Speedcubers and to reinstate Registered Speedcubers that have been suspended. Such rights must be exercised in accordance with [WCA Motion : Suspensions and other Sanctions](wcadoc{documents/motions/15.2022.1 - Suspensions and other Sanctions.pdf}).
   7. To approve the annual budget proposal of the WCA Financial Committee in accordance with [WCA Motion : Finances](wcadoc{documents/motions/11.2023.1 - Finances.pdf}).
   8. To accept or not accept results of WCA Competitions as official, according to the procedures in the Regulations.
   9. To overrule any decision under control of the WCA, as long as the overruling complies with the WCA Bylaws, their Motions, and the Regulations.
   10. To appoint financial auditors based on all applicable legal requirements.
3. Decisions of the WCA Board are based on majority voting in the WCA Board.
4. The WCA Board's agenda is based on:
   1. Vision and strategy documents for the WCA, updated on a periodical basis by the WCA Board.
   2. Input from Staff, Regional Organizations, local organization teams, Registered Speedcubers, external organizations, media, or outsiders.
   3. Internal initiatives and agreements within the WCA Board.
5. Communication with or within the WCA Board:
   1. Communication to the WCA Board shall generally take place via the email address [board@worldcubeassociation.org](mailto:board@worldcubeassociation.org), but could also be initiated via other communication channels.
   2. All communication on behalf of the WCA Board should include all Directors, e.g. as a carbon copy (CC) of the WCA Board's email address in email, a paper copy, or online messages.
   3. Communication within the WCA Board will be arranged internally with full logging of electronic communication.
6. Removal of Directors
   1. Directors will automatically be removed at the end of their term. See Bylaws 3.5 (Election and Term of Office).
   2. Directors may decide to resign before the end of their term. See Bylaws 3.7 (Resignation).
   3. The WCA Board may decide to remove a Director according to Bylaws 3.8 (Removal). Before this final decision is made the WCA Board must first ask the WCA Integrity Committee for a non-binding advice on other possible solutions to the case leading to the possible removal.
   4. The WCA Voting Members may decide to remove a Director according to Bylaws 3.8 (Removal).
7. Reducing conflicts of roles
   1.  If all bodies are constituted and functional there must not exist an overlap in members of the WCA Board, WCA Integrity Committee, and WCA Appeals Committee unless the Board is temporarily required to lead, due to that Committee not having a Leader.
