# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 4.2018.1  
**Subject:** Board of Directors  
**Intent:** Rights and duties of WCA Board of Directors other than those covered in the Bylaws  
**Submitted by:** Board of Directors  
**Date:** July 31, 2018  

# Motion

The WCA Board of Directors (or simply WCA Board) is the leadership team of the WCA and its highest authority.

1. The WCA Board of Directors has the following duties:
   - 1.1. To guide, serve, and unite the WCA Community in accordance with the [WCA Motion : Objectives](wca{documents/motions/03.2017.1 - Objectives.pdf}).
   - 1.2. To oversee, guide, and supervise all Staff and External Staff of the WCA in accordance with the [WCA Motion : Objectives](wca{documents/motions/03.2017.1 - Objectives.pdf}).
   - 1.3. To oversee, guide, and supervise all structural and day-to-day activities of the WCA in accordance with the [WCA Motion : Objectives](wca{documents/motions/03.2017.1 - Objectives.pdf}).
   - 1.4. To oversee, guide, and supervise all relationships with Regional Organizations and Sponsors.
   - 1.5. To mobilize Staff, External Staff, Regional Organizations, and Competition Organizers to organize WCA Competitions on local, national, continental, and world level, well distributed in time and geographical location, and to ensure the quality of WCA Competitions up to the maximum extent.
   - 1.6. To represent the WCA in all dealings with other relevant organizations and with media.
   - 1.7. To negotiate or oversee the negotiation of all contracts on behalf of the WCA in consultation with the appropriate Committees.

2. WCA Board of Directors has the following rights:
   - 2.1. To amend the Bylaws and their Motions. Such rights must be exercised in accordance with [WCA Motion : Amendments of Bylaws and Motions](wca{documents/motions/13.2017.1 - Amendments of Bylaws and Motions.pdf}).
   - 2.2. To approve amendments to the Regulations. Such rights must be exercised in accordance with [WCA Motion : Amendments of Regulations](wca{documents/motions/14.2017.1 - Amendments of Regulations.pdf}).
   - 2.3. To establish and remove Committees or change their duties. Such rights must be exercised in accordance with the Motion relative to every Committee.
   - 2.4. To instate and remove Senior Delegates. Such rights must be exercised in accordance with [WCA Motion : Senior Delegates](wca{documents/motions/09.2017.1 - Senior Delegates.pdf}).
   - 2.5. To suspend or take other sanctions against Registered Speedcubers and to reinstate Registered Speedcubers that have been suspended. Such rights must be exercised in accordance with [WCA Motion : Suspensions and other Sanctions](wca{documents/motions/15.2017.1 - Suspensions and other Sanctions.pdf}).
   - 2.6. To approve the annual budget proposal of the WCA Financial Committee in accordance with [WCA Motion : Finances](wca{documents/motions/11.2017.1 - Finances.pdf}).
   - 2.7. To approve and announce WCA Competitions.
   - 2.8. To accept or not accept results of WCA Competitions as official, according to the procedures in the Regulations.
   - 2.9. To overrule any decision under control of the WCA, as long as the overruling complies with the WCA Bylaws, their Motions, and the Regulations.

3. Decisions of the WCA Board of Directors are based on majority voting in the WCA Board of Directors.

4. The WCA Board of Directors agenda is based on:
   - 4.1. Vision and strategy documents for the WCA, updated on a periodical basis by the WCA Board of Directors.
   - 4.2. Input from Staff, External Staff, Regional Organizations, local organization teams, Registered Speedcubers, external organizations, media, or outsiders.
   - 4.3. Internal initiatives and agreements within the WCA Board of Directors.

5. Communication with or within the WCA Board of Directors:
   - 5.1. Communication to the WCA Board of Directors shall generally take place via the email address [board@worldcubeassociation.org](mailto:board@worldcubeassociation.org), but could also be initiated via other communication channels.
   - 5.2. All communication on behalf of the WCA Board of Directors should include all Directors, e.g. as a carbon copy (CC) of the WCA Board of Directors email address in email, a paper copy, or online messages.
   - 5.3. Communication within the WCA Board of Directors will be arranged internally with full logging of electronic communication.

6. Removal of Directors
   - 6.1. Directors will automatically be removed at the end of their term. See Bylaws 3.4 (Election and Term of Office).
   - 6.2. Directors may decide to resign before the end of their term. See Bylaws 3.6 (Resignation).
   - 6.3. The WCA Board of Directors may decide to remove a Director according to Bylaws 3.7 (Removal). Before this final decision is made the WCA Board must first ask the WCA Ethics Committee for a non-binding advice on other possible solutions to the case leading to the possible removal.
   - 6.4. The WCA Staff may decide to remove a Director according to Bylaws 3.7 (Removal).

7. Removal of all the Board of Directors
   - 7.1. WCA Staff can request a voting to the WCA Ethics Committee to remove all the Board of Directors according to Bylaws 3.7 (Removal).
      - 7.1.1. In order to consider such a request, the request must be signed by at least 20% of the WCA Staff.
      - 7.1.2. The WCA Ethics Committee will lead the process of the voting that will take place.
   - 7.2. A Supermajority among all WCA Staff is required to remove all the Board of Directors.
      - 7.2.1. If the removal is accepted, the WCA Ethics Committee will start an election of new Directors immediately. During the election period, duties and rights of the WCA Board will not be operational and thus the processes that are lead by WCA Board will not be possible.
