# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 6.2024.1  
**Subject:** Regional Organizations  
**Intent:** Procedure of acknowledgement of Regional Organizations and description of their rights and duties  
**Submitted by:** WCA Board  
**Date:** August 1, 2024  

# Motion


The WCA shall acknowledge Regional Organizations as Members to support the Objectives of the WCA in specific regions.

1. Rights of Regional Organizations:
   1. Regional Organizations may represent the WCA in the region that they are acknowledged for, with activities that support the Objectives of the WCA.
   2. Regional Organizations may recognize a separate organization to act on its behalf in a subsection of the region of which it covers. This organization shall have the full rights, duties and responsibilities of an Associate Regional Organization.
      1. Regional Organizations must submit to the WCA a list of the organizations which it provides authorization to.
      2. Regional Organizations are responsible for any and all actions of organizations that act on its behalf.
   3. Full Regional Organizations may nominate themselves to be responsible for the payment of WCA dues for the region in which they cover.
2. Duties of Regional Organizations:
   1. To actively organize or support WCA Competitions in the region of the organization.
   2. To contribute to the Continental WCA Competitions that are held in the continent of the Regional Organization, if required by the corresponding Organization Team.
   3. To respect and operationalize the Objectives set out in the WCA Bylaws and Motions.
   4. To comply with all applicable WCA Regulations.
   5. To accept and comply with decisions of WCA Staff.
   6. To keep on file at the WCA a copy of its current bylaws and, if applicable, regulations in an electronic format.
3. Requirements of Regional Organizations:
   1. Two Regional Organizations shall not cover the same region.
   2. Regional Organizations shall not accept sponsorship from sponsors if it would create a conflict of interest with the sponsors of the WCA.
   3. Regional Organizations must provide an annual report to the WCA.
4. Application of Regional Organizations
   1. Application for acknowledgement by the WCA of Regional Organizations shall be submitted in writing to the WCA Board.
   2. The WCA Recognises two types of Regional Organizations: Full and Associate. Both have the same Duties and Requirements.
      1. The application for Full Regional Organizations must include all of the following information:
         1. Name of the Regional Organization.
         2. Official address and contact details.
         3. Official website.
         4. Official logo.
         5. A copy of its current bylaws and, if applicable, regulations, which are in compliance with the Bylaws and Regulations of the WCA.
            1. Applicants must provide an English translation of their Bylaws as well as their original Bylaws in the relevant local language.
         6. Proof of registration as a legal entity within the region in which it operates.
         7. A list of its principal directors and officers and their titles.
         8. A clear description of the area that is covered by the Regional Organization.
         9. A report on past and current WCA related activities.
      2. The application for Associate Regional Organizations must include all of the following information: 
         1. Name of the Regional Organization.
         2. Official address and contact details.
         3. Official website.
         4. Official logo.
         5. A copy of its current bylaws and, if applicable, regulations, which are in compliance with the Bylaws and Regulations of the WCA.
            1. Applicants must provide an English translation of their Bylaws as well as their original Bylaws in the relevant local language.
         6. A list of its principal directors and officers and their titles.
         7. A clear description of the area that is covered by the Regional Organization.
         8. A report on past and current WCA related activities.
5. Acknowledgement of Regional Organizations
   1. The WCA Board shall have the right to acknowledge the Regional Organization.
   2. Associate Regional Organizations may apply for recognition as a Full Regional Organization by submitting the information specified in 4.2.1.
      1. The WCA Board shall have the right to acknowledge the Associate Regional Organization as a Full Regional Organization.
6. Withdrawal of Acknowledgement of Regional Organizations
   1. Any Regional Organization may withdraw its acknowledgement any time by having its leadership submit a message to the WCA Board. The WCA Board shall have the right to accept the withdrawal, if there are no pending issues that need to be resolved before the removal of the acknowledgement of the Regional Organization.
   2. Associate Regional Organizations shall lose acknowledgement as a Regional Organization after two years from the date of acknowledgement.
