# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 7.2024.1  
**Subject:** Registered Speedcubers  
**Intent:** Procedure of acknowledgement of Registered Speedcubers and description of their rights and duties  
**Submitted by:** WCA Board  
**Date:** August 1, 2024  

# Motion

Persons who are Registered Speedcubers have the role of Non-voting Member of the WCA. These persons may have other roles in the WCA if they function as a Member of the WCA Staff.

1. A person shall have the designation of Registered Speedcuber if the person competed at a past WCA Competition and has an attributed personal WCA ID.
2. A person becomes a Registered Speedcuber at the moment the person begins their first official attempt at a WCA Competition.
3. The registration of a Registered Speedcuber will be complete with a WCA ID, once the results of the first WCA Competition of the person are posted via the online services of the WCA.
4. Statuses of Registered Speedcubers <br> All Registered Speedcubers have one or more of the following statuses of Registration:
   1. Active. Any Registered Speedcuber who has competed in any WCA Competition in the last 24 months.
   2. Passive. Any Registered Speedcuber who is not considered an active Registered Speedcuber.
   3. Suspended. Any Registered Speedcuber who is not eligible to compete in any WCA Competition for a defined period because of a disciplinary ruling by the WCA in accordance with [WCA Motion : Suspensions and other Sanctions](wcadoc{documents/motions/15.2022.1 - Suspensions and other Sanctions.pdf}).
5. Rights of Registered Speedcubers
   1. The rights of Registered Speedcubers regarding their Registration in the WCA are defined by the role of Non-voting Member in the Bylaws and in the Motions.
   2. The rights of Registered Speedcubers in WCA Competitions are defined by the role of Competitor in the WCA Regulations.
6. Duties of Registered Speedcubers
   1. Registered Speedcubers must behave according to the Spirit of the WCA within the WCA Community.
   2. Registered Speedcubers must comply with the Regulations before, during, and after a WCA Competition that they register for and/or participate in.
7. Revocation of registration as a Registered Speedcuber
   1. The registration of a Registered Speedcuber may be resigned from the WCA by notification in writing to the Secretary.
   2. Acknowledged WCA Competition results and Registered Speedcuber profiles may be anonymised as requested by the Registered Speedcuber.
