# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 7.2017.1  
**Subject:** Registered Speedcubers  
**Intent:** Procedure of acknowledgement of Registered Speedcubers and description of their rights and duties  
**Submitted by:** Board of Directors  
**Date:** July 1, 2017  

# Motion

Persons who are Registered Speedcubers have the role of Non-voting Member of the WCA. These persons may have other roles in the WCA if they function as a Staff Member of the WCA.

1. The WCA calls any person a Registered Speedcuber if the person competed at a past WCA Competition and has an attributed personal WCA ID.

2. A person becomes a Registered Speedcuber at the moment the person completes their registration at the venue for their first WCA Competition and starts their first official attempt at that WCA Competition.

3. The registration of a Registered Speedcuber will be complete with a WCA ID, once the results of the first WCA Competition of the person are posted and announced via the online services of the WCA.

4. Statuses of Registered Speedcubers <br> All Registered Speedcubers have one or more of the following statuses of Registration:
   - 4.1. Active. Any Registered Speedcuber who has competed in any WCA Competition in the last 24 months.
   - 4.2. Passive. Any Registered Speedcuber who is not considered an active Registered Speedcuber.
   - 4.3. Suspended. Any Registered Speedcuber who is not eligible as a competitor in any WCA Competition for a defined period because of a disciplinary ruling by the WCA in accordance with [WCA Motion : Suspensions and other Sanctions](./15-Suspensions_and_other_Sanctions.md).

5. Rights of Registered Speedcubers
   - 5.1. The rights of Registered Speedcubers regarding their Registration in the WCA are defined by the role of Non-voting Member in the Bylaws and in the Motions.
   - 5.2. The rights of Registered Speedcubers in WCA Competitions are defined by the role of Competitor in the WCA Regulations.

6. Duties of Registered Speedcubers
   - 6.1. Registered Speedcubers must behave according to the Spirit of the WCA within the WCA Community.
   - 6.2. Registered Speedcubers must comply with the Regulations before, during, and after a WCA Competition that they register for and/or participate in.

7. Revocation of registration as a Registered Speedcuber
   - 7.1. It is not possible to remove the registration of a Registered Speedcuber in the WCA.
   - 7.2. Acknowledged WCA Competition results and Registered Speedcuber profiles should not be removed.
