# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 8.2024.2  
**Subject:** WCA Trainee Delegates  
**Intent:** Procedure of acknowledgement of WCA Trainee Delegates and description of their rights and duties  
**Submitted by:** WCA Board  
**Date:** August 1, 2024  

# Motion

Trainee Delegates are Community Members who have been appointed by the WCA to train for the role of WCA Delegate.

1. Trainee Delegates will require a time period of extra mentoring and assistance by Senior Delegates and/or Regional Delegates, to support their development to Junior Delegates and Staff of the WCA. Trainee Delegate should be the default appointment by a Senior Delegate, unless there is need from the Community to have the appointment be directly to Junior Delegate.
   1. A Senior Delegate may promote a Trainee Delegate to Junior Delegate, if the Senior Delegate judges that the Trainee Delegate has shown their fitness for the position and the Delegate has attended at least one competition in the Trainee Delegate capacity.
2. Rights of Trainee Delegates
   1. Trainee Delegates have the following rights provided they are under direct in-person supervision from either a Full Delegate or Junior Delegate that is a listed Delegate of the relevant competition.
      1. Trainee Delegates have the right to be listed as a Delegate at WCA Competitions.
      2. Trainee Delegates have the right to make decisions at competitions in which they are listed as a Delegate.
      3. Trainee Delegates have the right to read and participate in conversations in the Reports group.
      4. Trainee Delegates have the right to contribute to Delegate Reports about competitions that they helped oversee.
      5. Trainee Delegates have the right to review and compile results for competitions they helped oversee.
      6. Trainee Delegates have the right to submit corrections and changes to results of competitions they helped oversee.
3. Duties of Trainee Delegates
   1. Trainee Delegates shall behave as a representative of the WCA in accordance with the Mission, Spirit, Regulations, Policies, and Code of Ethics of the WCA.
   2. Trainee Delegates shall sustain knowledge and skills regarding the Mission, Spirit, Policies and Regulations of the WCA.
   3. Trainee Delegates shall accept and comply with the decisions of the WCA Board, WCA Officers, and WCA Teams/Committees.
   4. For every WCA Competition that they are overseeing, Trainee Delegates:
      1. represent the WCA
      2. make sure Competition Organizers and Competition Staff are fully capable, equipped, and prepared to make the competition successful
      3. make sure the competition is run according to the Mission, Spirit, and Regulations of the WCA
      4. contribute to the timely submission of a report about the competition to the community of WCA Delegates
      5. contribute to the timely submission of the results for the competition to the WCA Results Team
      6. inform the WCA Results Team about any late corrections and changes in the results
      7. in cooperation with the other Delegates ensure the timely payment of WCA Dues.
4. Appointment of Trainee Delegates
   1. Senior Delegates may appoint suitable persons who meet the following requirements:
      1. Full trustworthiness
      2. A high level of knowledge of the Mission, Spirit, Policies and Regulations of the WCA
      3. Strong, independent, communicative, positive personality
      4. Leadership with strong feeling of responsibility
      5. Organizational skills, ability to perform core organizational tasks if necessary
      6. Representativeness for the WCA
   2. Senior Delegates decide at any time which persons are proposed as Trainee Delegates, then send in an application for these persons to the WCA Board.
      1. The WCA Board rejects or approves the application.
      2. After approval, the Senior Delegate appoints the persons as Trainee Delegates.
5. Withdrawal of Trainee Delegates
   1. Trainee Delegates may withdraw their appointment at any time by submitting a resignation letter to their Senior Delegate with a carbon copy (CC) to the WCA Board and WCA Executive Assistants Team.
   2. Trainee Delegates will automatically lose their appointment after a period of 12 months, unless their Senior Delegate extends the appointment with approval from the WCA Board.
   3. Senior Delegates shall have the right to withdraw the appointment of a Trainee Delegate in their attributed area.
