# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 8.2024.1  
**Subject:** WCA Delegates  
**Intent:** Procedure of acknowledgement of WCA Delegates and description of their rights and duties  
**Submitted by:** WCA Board  
**Date:** August 1, 2024 

# Motion

WCA Delegate is a role defined in the WCA Regulations to oversee official WCA Competitions on behalf of the WCA.

1. WCA Delegates are responsible and accountable for making sure that WCA Competitions are run according to the Mission, Spirit, and Regulations of the WCA.
2. The role of WCA Delegate can be performed by Full Delegates and Junior Delegates.
   1. Trainee Delegates may only perform the role of WCA Delegate under direct in-person supervision from either a Full Delegate or Junior Delegate.
3. WCA Competitions and WCA Competition results can only be officially acknowledged by the WCA if a WCA Delegate is present and overseeing the competition.
   1. Exception: in cases of extenuating circumstances where the WCA Delegate cannot attend the competition, the WCA Board or the Senior Delegate for the region in which the competition is held may appoint a trusted person to act as a temporary WCA Delegate for the competition.
4. Rights of WCA Delegates
   1. WCA Delegates have the right to officiate a WCA Competition after it has been announced by the WCA Competition Announcement Team.
   2. For WCA Competitions that they are overseeing, WCA Delegates have the rights as described in the WCA Regulations.
5. Duties of WCA Delegates
   1. WCA Delegates shall behave as a representative of the WCA in accordance with the Mission, Spirit, Regulations, Policies, and Code of Ethics of the WCA.
   2. WCA Delegates shall be involved in their local community and make sure the voice of their local community is heard within the WCA.
   3. WCA Delegates shall be actively involved in the community of WCA Delegates.
   4. WCA Delegates shall sustain knowledge and skills regarding the Mission, Spirit, Policies, and Regulations of the WCA.
   5. WCA Delegates shall manage relationships with Regional Organizations, Competition Organizers, and Competition Staff.
   6. WCA Delegates shall develop capabilities of Trainee Delegates, Regional Organizations, Competition Organizers, and Competition Staff.
   7. WCA Delegates shall accept and comply with decisions of the WCA Board, WCA Officers, and WCA Teams/Committees.
   8. For every WCA Competition that they are overseeing, WCA Delegates:
      1. Represent the WCA.
      2. Ensure Competition Organizers and Competition Staff are fully capable, equipped, and prepared to make the competition successful.
      3. Ensure the competition is run according to the Mission, Spirit, Policies, and Regulations of the WCA.
      4. Ensure timely submission of the results for the competition to the WCA Results Team.
      5. Ensure timely submission of a report about the competition to applicable WCA Staff.
      6. Inform the WCA Results Team about any late corrections and/or changes in the results.
      7. Ensure timely payment of WCA Dues.
6. Appointment of WCA Delegates
   1. Senior Delegates decide how many WCA Delegates are needed in their attributed area. WCA Delegates are typically nominated per country, but have the rights to cover all countries.
   2. If a new WCA Delegate is needed for an area, Senior Delegates will actively look for suitable persons who meet the following requirements:
      1. Full trustworthiness.
      2. Excellent living knowledge of the Mission, Spirit, Policies, and Regulations of the WCA.
      3. Strong, independent, communicative, positive personality.
      4. Leadership with strong feeling of responsibility.
      5. Organizational skills, ability to perform core organizational tasks if necessary.
      6. Representativeness for the WCA.
   3. Senior Delegates decide at any time which persons are proposed as WCA Delegates, and follow the appointment/nomination process per the Senior Delegate motion.
7. Withdrawal of WCA Delegate Appointment
   1. WCA Delegates may withdraw their appointment any time by submitting a resignation letter to their Senior Delegate.
   2. WCA Delegates will automatically lose their appointment after not overseeing a WCA Competition over a period of 24 months, unless their Senior Delegate extends the appointment.
   3. Senior Delegates shall have the right to withdraw the appointment of a WCA Delegate in their attributed area, if the WCA Delegate does not comply with the rights and duties of WCA Delegates and of their specific position as Full Delegate or Junior Delegate, after approval from the WCA Board in the case of Full Delegates where a letter of resignation has not been received.
8. Full Delegates
   1. Full Delegates are Staff of the WCA who have been appointed by the WCA to perform the role of WCA Delegate.
9. Junior Delegates
   1. Junior Delegates are Staff of the WCA who have been appointed by the WCA to perform the role of WCA Delegate.
   2. Junior Delegates will require a time period of extra attention by Senior Delegates, to support their development to Full Delegates of the WCA.
      1. After a Junior Delegate has held the position for at least one year and has successfully managed at least three WCA Competitions, a Senior Delegate may give a Junior Delegate the status of Full Delegate, if the Senior Delegate judges that the Junior Delegate has shown their fitness for the position.
      2. To promote a Junior Delegate to Full Delegate, the Senior Delegate must submit the corresponding application to the WCA Board.
      3. The WCA Board rejects or approves the application.
      4. After approval, the Senior Delegate appoints the person as Full Delegate.
