# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 8.2020.2  
**Subject:** WCA Trainee Delegates  
**Intent:** Procedure of acknowledgement of WCA Trainee Delegates and description of their rights and duties  
**Submitted by:** Board of Directors  
**Date:** January 31, 2020  

# Motion

Trainee Delegates are Community Members who have been appointed by the WCA to train for the role of WCA Delegate.

1. Trainee Delegates will require a time period of extra mentoring and assistance by Senior Delegates and/or Regional Delegates, to support their development to Candidate Delegates and Staff of the WCA.
   1. A Senior Delegate may nominate a Trainee Delegate for a promotion to Candidate Delegate, if the Senior Delegate judges that the Trainee Delegate has shown their fitness for the position.
   2. To promote a Trainee Delegate to Candidate Delegate, the Senior Delegate must submit the corresponding application to the WCA Board.
   3. The WCA Board rejects or approves the application.
   4. After approval, the Senior Delegate appoints the person as Candidate Delegate.
2. Rights of Trainee Delegates
   1. Trainee Delegates have the right to be listed as a Delegate at WCA Competitions in which there is at least one other WCA Delegate listed.
      1. At least one listed Delegate must possess the position of Candidate Delegate, Full Delegate, Regional Delegate, or Senior Delegate.
      2. Trainee Delegates have the right to make decisions at competitions in which they are listed as a Delegate.
      3. Trainee Delegates have the right to read and participate in conversations in the Delegates and Reports groups.
      4. Trainee Delegates have the right to contribute to Delegate Reports about competitions that they helped oversee.
      5. Trainee Delegates have the right to review and compile results for competitions they helped oversee.
      6. Trainee Delegates have the right to submit corrections and changes to results of competitions they helped oversee.
3. Duties of Trainee Delegates
   1. Trainee Delegates shall behave as a representative of the WCA in accordance with the Mission, Spirit, Regulations, Policies, and Code of Ethics of the WCA.
   2. Trainee Delegates shall sustain knowledge and skills regarding the Mission, Spirit, and Regulations of the WCA.
   3. Trainee Delegates shall accept and comply with the decisions of the WCA Board, WCA Officers, and WCA Teams/Committees.
   4. For every WCA Competition that they are overseeing, Trainee Delegates:
      1. represent the WCA
      2. make sure Competition Organizers and Competition Staff are fully capable, equipped, and prepared to make the competition successful
      3. make sure the competition is run according to the Mission, Spirit, and Regulations of the WCA
      4. timely submit a report about the competition to the community of WCA Delegates
      5. timely send in the results for the competition to the WCA Results Team
      6. inform the WCA Results Team about any late corrections and changes in the results
      7. ensure timely payment of WCA Dues in cooperation with the other Delegates
4. Appointment of Trainee Delegates
   1. Senior Delegates may appoint suitable persons who meet the following requirements:
      1. Full trustworthiness
      2. A high level of knowledge of the Mission, Spirit, and Regulations of the WCA
         3. Strong, independent, communicative, positive personality
         4. Leadership with strong feeling of responsibility
         5. Organizational skills, ability to perform core organizational tasks if necessary
         6. Representativeness for the WCA
   2. Senior Delegates decide at any time which persons are proposed as Trainee Delegates, then send in an application for these persons to the WCA Board of Directors.
      1. The WCA Board of Directors rejects or approves the application.
      2. After approval, the Senior Delegate appoints the persons as Trainee Delegates.
5. Withdrawal of Trainee Delegates
   1. Trainee Delegates may withdraw their appointment at any time by submitting a resignation letter to their Senior Delegate with a carbon copy (CC) to the WCA Board and WCA Executive Assistants Team.
   2. Trainee Delegates will automatically lose their appointment after a period of 12 months, unless their Senior Delegate extends the appointment with approval from the WCA Board of Directors.
   3. Senior Delegates shall have the right to withdraw the appointment of a Trainee Delegate in their attributed area.
