# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 8.2018.1  
**Subject:** WCA Delegates  
**Intent:** Procedure of acknowledgement of WCA Delegates and description of their rights and duties  
**Submitted by:** Board of Directors  
**Date:** July 31, 2018  

# Motion

WCA Delegate is a role defined in the WCA Regulations to oversee official WCA Competitions on behalf of the WCA.

1. WCA Delegates are responsible and accountable for making sure that WCA Competitions are run according to the Mission, Spirit, and Regulations of the WCA.

2. The role of WCA Delegate can be performed by Full Delegates and Candidate Delegates.
   - 2.1. Full Delegates are Staff of the WCA
   - 2.2. Candidate Delegates are External Staff of the WCA

3. WCA Competitions and WCA Competition results can only be officially acknowledged by the WCA if a WCA Delegate is present and overseeing the competition.
   - 3.1. Exception: in case the WCA Delegate cannot attend the competition, the WCA Board may appoint a trusted person to act as a temporary WCA Candidate Delegate for the competition.

4. Rights of WCA Delegates
   - 4.1. WCA Delegates have the right to make a WCA Competition official after the approval of the WCA Board.
   - 4.2. For WCA Competitions that they are overseeing, WCA Delegates have the rights as described in the WCA Regulations.

5. Duties of WCA Delegates
   - 5.1. WCA Delegates shall behave as a representative of the WCA in accordance with the Mission, Spirit, and Regulations of the WCA.
   - 5.2. WCA Delegates shall be involved in their local community and make sure the voice of their local community is heard within the WCA.
   - 5.3. WCA Delegates shall be actively involved in the community of WCA Delegates.
   - 5.4. WCA Delegates shall sustain knowledge and skills regarding the Mission, Spirit, and Regulations of the WCA.
   - 5.5. WCA Delegates shall manage relationships with Regional Organizations, Competition Organizers, and Competition Staff.
   - 5.6. WCA Delegates shall develop capabilities of Regional Organizations, Competition Organizers, and Competition Staff.
   - 5.7. WCA Delegates shall accept and comply with decisions of the WCA Board and the WCA Officers.
   - 5.8. For every WCA Competition that they are overseeing, WCA Delegates:
      - 5.8.1. represent the WCA
      - 5.8.2. make sure Competition Organizers and Competition Staff are fully capable, equipped, and prepared to make the competition successful
      - 5.8.3. make sure the competition is run according to the Mission, Spirit, and Regulations of the WCA
      - 5.8.4. timely submit a report about the competition to the community of WCA Delegates
      - 5.8.5. timely send in the results for the competition to the WCA Results Team (see [WCA Motion : Results Team](./10-Results_Team.md))
      - 5.8.6. inform the WCA Results Team about any late corrections and changes in the results (see [WCA Motion : Results Team](./10-Results_Team.md))

6. Appointment of WCA Delegates
   - 6.1. Senior Delegates decide how many WCA Delegates are needed in their attributed area. WCA Delegates are typically nominated per country, but have the rights to cover all countries.
   - 6.2. If a new WCA Delegate is needed for an area, Senior Delegates will actively look for suitable persons who meet the following requirements:
      - 6.2.1. Full trustworthiness
      - 6.2.2. Excellent living knowledge of the Mission, Spirit, and Regulations of the WCA
      - 6.2.3. Strong, independent, communicative, positive personality
      - 6.2.4. Leadership with strong feeling of responsibility
      - 6.2.5. Organizational skills, ability to perform core organizational tasks if necessary
      - 6.2.6. Representativeness for the WCA
   - 6.3. Senior Delegates decide at any time which persons are proposed as WCA Delegates, then send in an application for these persons to the WCA Board of Directors.
      - 6.3.1. The WCA Board of Directors rejects or approves the application.
      - 6.3.2. After approval, the Senior Delegate appoints the persons as Candidate Delegates.

7. Withdrawal of WCA Delegate Appointment
   - 7.1. WCA Delegates may withdraw their appointment any time by submitting a resignation letter to their Senior Delegate with copy to the WCA Board.
   - 7.2. WCA Delegates will automatically lose their appointment after not overseeing a WCA Competition over a period of 24 months, unless their Senior Delegate extends the appointment.
   - 7.3. Senior Delegates shall have the right to withdraw the appointment of a WCA Delegate in their attributed area, if the WCA Delegate does not comply with the rights and duties of WCA Delegates and of their specific position as Full Delegate or Candidate Delegate, after approval of the WCA Board.

8. Full Delegates
   - 8.1. Full Delegates are Staff of the WCA who have been appointed by the WCA to perform the role of WCA Delegate.

9. Candidate Delegates
   - 9.1. Candidate Delegates are External Staff of the WCA who have been appointed by the WCA to perform the role of WCA Delegate.
   - 9.2. Candidate Delegates will require a time period of extra attention by Senior Delegates, to support their development to Full Delegates and Staff of the WCA.
      - 9.2.1. After a Candidate Delegate has held the position for at least one year and has successfully managed at least three WCA Competitions, a Senior Delegate may give a Candidate Delegate the status of Full Delegate, if the Senior Delegate judges that the Candidate Delegate has shown their fitness for the position.
      - 9.2.2. To promote a Candidate Delegate to Full Delegate, the Senior Delegate must submit the corresponding application to the WCA Board.
      - 9.2.3. The WCA Board rejects or approves the application.
      - 9.2.4. After approval, the Senior Delegate appoints the person as Full Delegate.
