# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 9.2024.1  
**Subject:** Senior Delegates  
**Intent:** Procedure of acknowledgement of WCA Senior Delegates and description of their rights and duties  
**Submitted by:** WCA Board  
**Date:** August 1, 2024  

# Motion

Senior Delegates are WCA Staff and Full Delegates, with an additional role to manage the WCA Delegates in an attributed area.

1. Senior Delegates have all the rights and duties of Full Delegates and extra rights and duties as described in this Motion.
2. Rights of Senior Delegates
   1. Senior Delegates can appoint Registered Speedcubers as Trainee Delegates or Junior Delegates in their attributed area with approval from the WCA Board.
   2. Senior Delegates can promote Trainee Delegates to Junior Delegates in their attributed area, provided they have attended at least one competition in the Trainee Delegate capacity.
   3. Senior Delegates can promote Junior Delegates to Full Delegates in their attributed area with approval from the WCA Board.
   4. Senior Delegates can appoint Delegates as Regional Delegates in their attributed area with approval from the WCA Board.
   5. Senior Delegates can remove the role of WCA Delegate from Trainee Delegates in their attributed area.
   6. Senior Delegates can remove the role of WCA Delegate from Junior Delegates in their attributed area.
   7. Senior Delegates can remove the role of WCA Delegate from Full Delegates in their attributed area, with approval from the WCA Board in cases where the Full Delegate has not sent a letter of resignation.
   8. Senior Delegates can demote Full Delegates to Junior Delegates in their attributed area, with approval from the WCA Board.
   9. Senior Delegates can demote Regional Delegates to Full Delegates in their attributed area, with approval from the WCA Board in cases where the Regional Delegate has not sent a letter of resignation.
   10. Senior Delegates can appoint Registered Speedcubers as Temporary Delegates for competitions in their attributed area in cases of extenuating circumstances where the WCA Delegate cannot attend the competition.
3. Duties of Senior Delegates
   1. Develop the WCA in their attributed area:
      1. Analyze and use opportunities and strengths to develop the WCA.
      2. Analyze and solve challenges and weaknesses to sustain the WCA.
      3. Inform the WCA Board about important developments.
      4. Be the contact for Registered Speedcubers about WCA related matters.
   2. Manage the WCA Delegates in their attributed area:
      1. Ensure there are enough WCA Delegates to oversee all WCA Competitions in their attributed area.
      2. Sustain the quality of the WCA Delegates in their attributed area.
      3. Support Full Delegates, Junior Delegates, Trainee Delegates, and potential future WCA Delegates in their evolution, learning, and professionalization.
      4. Motivate WCA Delegates to be actively involved in the community of WCA Delegates.
      5. Inform the WCA Board about changes in the group of WCA Delegates in their attributed area.
   3. Promote an adequate standard of local Competition Organizers and Competition Staff for their attributed area:
      1. Advise WCA Delegates on the cooperation with local Competition Organizers and Competition Staff.
      2. Act as the escalation point for the WCA Delegates in case of issues with local Competition Organizers and Competition Staff.
4. Appointment of Senior Delegates
   1. The WCA Board decides how many Senior Delegates are needed and how the areas are divided among Senior Delegates, based on the number of Delegates and the span-of-control of the Senior Delegates. All WCA Delegates should be managed by a Senior Delegate.
      1. If a region of Delegates does not have an assigned Senior Delegate the WCA Board will assume the responsibilities of a Senior Delegate in that region.
   2. If a new Senior Delegate is needed for an area, the WCA Board will ask for applicants among all Full Delegates.
   3. Candidates shall apply for the position within the required application period, and include all documentation that is requested in the application request.
   4. The WCA Board will decide by Majority vote which of the candidates will be appointed as new Senior Delegate(s) and for which attributed area(s) they will fulfil their role.
   5. The WCA Board may appoint an interim Senior Delegate for a period of up to 3 months without a request for applications among all Full Delegates.
      1. The selection of an interim Senior Delegate by the WCA Board is based on a vote in the WCA Board with at least a supermajority.
      2. It is not possible to extend the term of an interim Senior Delegate.
      3. The term of an interim Senior Delegate automatically ends once a Senior Delegate is appointed by the WCA Board following the orderly process outlined in section 4.1 - 4.4.
5. Withdrawal of Appointment of Senior Delegates
   1. Senior Delegates may withdraw their appointment any time by submitting a message to the WCA Board.
   2. A Senior Delegate automatically loses their appointment after being a Senior Delegate for 24 months. The WCA Board may choose to extend the appointment, one or more times, given the following:
      1. The maximum extension is 24 months.
      2. The maximum appointment length is 48 months.
      3. Time spent as an interim Senior Delegate does not count towards the above extension restrictions. 
   3. The WCA Board shall have the right to withdraw the appointment of a Senior Delegate, if the Senior Delegate does not comply with the rights and duties of Senior Delegates, after advisory consultation with the WCA Integrity Committee.
