# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 9.2019.1  
**Subject:** Senior Delegates  
**Intent:** Procedure of acknowledgement of WCA Senior Delegates and description of their rights and duties  
**Submitted by:** Board of Directors  
**Date:** March 31, 2019  

# Motion

Senior Delegates are WCA Staff and Full Delegates, with an additional role to manage the WCA Delegates in an attributed area.

1. Senior Delegates have all the rights and duties of Full Delegates and extra rights and duties as described in this Motion.
2. Rights of Senior Delegates
   1. Senior Delegates can appoint Registered Speedcubers as Candidate Delegates in their attributed area. See [WCA Motion : Delegates](wca{documents/motions/08.2019.1 - Delegates.pdf}).
   2. Senior Delegates can promote Candidate Delegates to Full Delegates in their attributed area. See [WCA Motion : Delegates](wca{documents/motions/08.2019.1 - Delegates.pdf}).
   3. Senior Delegates can appoint Delegates as Regional Delegates in their attributed area. See [WCA Motion : Regional Delegates](wca{documents/motions/09.2019.2 - Regional Delegates.pdf}).
   4. Senior Delegates can remove the role of WCA Delegate from Candidate Delegates and Full Delegates in their attributed area. See [WCA Motion : Delegates](wca{documents/motions/08.2019.1 - Delegates.pdf}).
   5. Senior Delegates can demote Full Delegates to Candidate Delegates, in their attributed area. See [WCA Motion : Delegates](wca{documents/motions/08.2019.1 - Delegates.pdf}).
3. Duties of Senior Delegates
   1. Develop the WCA in their attributed area:
      1. Analyze and use opportunities and strengths to develop the WCA.
      2. Analyze and solve challenges and weaknesses to sustain the WCA.
      3. Inform the Board of Directors about important developments.
      4. Be the contact for Registered Speedcubers about WCA related matters.
   2. Manage the WCA Delegates in their attributed area:
      1. Make sure there are enough WCA Delegates to oversee all WCA Competitions in their attributed area.
      2. Sustain the quality of the WCA Delegates in their attributed area.
      3. Support Full Delegates, Candidate Delegates, and potential future WCA Delegates in their evolution, learning, and professionalization.
      4. Motivate WCA Delegates to be actively involved in the community of WCA Delegates.
      5. Inform the Board of Directors about changes in the group of WCA Delegates in their attributed area.
   3. Promote an adequate standard of local Competition Organizers and Competition Staff for their attributed area:
      1. Advise WCA Delegates on the cooperation with local Competition Organizers and Competition Staff.
      2. Act as the escalation point for the WCA Delegates in case of issues with local Competition Organizers and Competition Staff.
4. Appointment of Senior Delegates
   1. The Board of Directors decides how many Senior Delegates are needed and how the areas are divided among Senior Delegates, based on the number of Delegates and the span-of-control of the Senior Delegates. All WCA Delegates should be managed by a Senior Delegate.
   2. If a new Senior Delegate is needed for an area, the Board of Directors will ask for applicants among all Full Delegates.
   3. Candidates shall apply for the position within the required application period, and include all documentation that is requested in the application request.
   4. The Board of Directors will decide by Majority vote which of the candidates will be appointed as new Senior Delegate(s) and for which attributed area(s) they will fulfil their role.
5. Withdrawal of Appointment of Senior Delegates
   1. Senior Delegates may withdraw their appointment any time by submitting a message to the Board of Directors.
   2. Senior Delegates will automatically lose their appointment after being a Senior Delegate for 24 months, unless the Board of Directors extends the appointment, one or more times, for an additional time frame of at most 24 months.
   3. The Board of Directors shall have the right to withdraw the appointment of a Senior Delegate, if the Senior Delegate does not comply with the rights and duties of Senior Delegates, after advisory consultation with the WCA Ethics Committee.
