# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 10.2024.6  
**Subject:** WCA Financial Committee  
**Intent:** Rights and duties of the WCA Financial Committee  
**Submitted by:** WCA Board  
**Date:** TBC, 2024

# Motion

1. The WCA Financial Committee is an Advisory Committee of the WCA with the following rights and duties:
   1. Creating an annual budget proposal for the WCA.
   2. Managing the finances and accounts of the WCA in accordance with the approved annual budget proposal.
   3. Paying invoices and taxes that are directed to the WCA, in accordance with applicable policies and annual budget as approved by the WCA Board.
   4. Reporting and advising on a quarterly basis to the WCA Board on the finances of the WCA.
   5. Reporting on a periodic basis to external organizations on the finances of the WCA, based on all applicable legal requirements.
   6. Supporting financial auditors based on all applicable legal requirements.
   7. Collecting Dues from WCA competitions as per the [WCA Dues System Policy](wcadoc{documents/policies/external/Dues System.pdf})
   8. Overseeing and approving funding of WCA programs to further the WCA Mission in accordance with applicable policies.
   9. Supporting the distribution of WCA Competition Gear:
      1. Supporting WCA representatives with equipment ("WCA Competition Gear") for WCA Competitions.
         1. Developing and maintaining clear guidelines on to whom and under which conditions the WCA Competition Gear can be supplied.
      2. Actively seeking for the best prices and strategies for the distribution of the WCA Competition Gear.
2. The Treasurer of the WCA is a member of the WCA Financial Committee.
