# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 10.2024.0  
**Subject:** WCA Committees and Teams  
**Intent:** Definition of WCA Committees and Teams  
**Submitted by:** WCA Board  
**Date:** August 1, 2024

# Motion

The WCA will have Committees and/or Teams that have the role of Advisory Committee as described in the Bylaws.

1. The Committees and Teams are responsible for operational activities of the WCA. Any reference to a Team should be understood to also be a reference to a Committee and vice versa.
2. All WCA Committees and Teams shall be formed for an indefinite period, unless otherwise decided by the WCA Board.
   1. If a WCA Committee has fewer than 2 members it will not be considered constituted and its rights and duties will be undertaken by the WCA Board until 2 or more members are appointed. 
3. Each WCA Committee and Team will have a direct relationship with at least one Director for management, communication, and escalation.
4. Each Committee or Team may split into one or more sub-teams specialized in handling one or more of the tasks of the Committee or Team.
   1. Each member of a sub-team will automatically hold membership in the Committee/Team of which that sub-team performs services for.
5. Each WCA Committee and Team shall have one Leader.
   1. In the case a Committee or Team does not have a leader it will be led by the WCA Board.
   2. The Leader of every WCA Committee and Team is chosen by the WCA Board, based on a vote in the WCA Board with at least a supermajority, after a request for applications among the Community.
   3. The WCA Board may appoint an interim Leader for a period of up to 3 months without a request for applications among the Community.
         1. The selection of an interim Leader by the WCA Board is based on a vote in the WCA Board with at least a supermajority.
         2. It is not possible to extend the term of an interim Leader.
         3. The term of an interim Leader automatically ends once a Leader is appointed by the WCA Board following the process outlined in section 4.2.
   4. The Committee Leader is responsible for:
      1. Making sure the Committee and the Committee Members are capable, equipped, and available for performing the duties of the Committee.
      2. Selecting, appointing, promoting, demoting, and removing Committee Members.
         1. Approval of the WCA Board is required for the demotion of a Senior Member in cases where the Senior Member has not sent a letter of resignation.
         2. The Committee Leader must consult the WCA Board prior to making a public call for applicants. 
      3. Managing day-to-day processes of the Committee.
      4. Planning of the activities of the Committee.
      5. Making sure activities are run according to the planning.
      6. Reporting periodically and ad hoc to the WCA Board.
      7. Managing the decision making about topics within the Committee. If necessary, decisions can be made based on either consensus decision-making or based on majority voting with all Committee Members having equal voting rights.
   5. Withdrawal of appointment of Committee Leader:
      1. A Committee Leader may withdraw their appointment any time by submitting a resignation to the WCA Board.
      2. A Committee Leader automatically loses their appointment after being a Committee Leader for 24 months. The WCA Board may choose to extend the appointment, one or more times, given the following:
         1. The maximum extension is 24 months.
         2. The maximum appointment length is 48 months.
         3. Time spent as an interim Leader does not count towards the above extension restrictions. 
      3. The WCA Board shall have the right to withdraw the appointment of a Committee Leader, if the Committee Leader does not comply with the rights and duties of Committee Leader, after advisory consultation by the WCA Integrity Committee.
         1. For the withdrawal of the WCA Integrity Committee Leader, the WCA Board will ask for advisory consultation to the WCA Appeals Committee.
         2. If none of these consultations is possible due to the inexistence of these Committees or because these Committees are not functional, the WCA Board will proceed without consultation.
      4. After a Committee Leader appointment has been withdrawn, the person remains as a Committee/Team Senior Member of the respective Committee/Team.
6. Each WCA Committee and Team may have one or more Senior Member(s).
   1. Appointment of Committee/Team Senior Member:
      1. Committee/Team Members are eligible for promotion to Committee/Team Senior Members after they have served at least 1 year, cumulatively, as a Staff Member.
      2. A Committee Leader may nominate a member for the status of Committee/Team Senior Member if the Leader judges that the member has shown their fitness for the position.
      3. To promote a Committee/Team Member to Committee/Team Senior Member, the Committee Leader must submit the corresponding application to the WCA Board.
      4. The WCA Board approves or rejects the application.
      5. After approval, the Committee Leader appoints the person as Committee/Team Senior Member.
   2. A Committee/Team Senior Member appointment is automatically withdrawn after the person is no longer a Committee/Team Member of the respective Committee/Team.
   3. A member cannot be a Senior Member of only a sub-team.
7. All members of the Committee should communicate with a carbon copy (CC) to all the other members of the Committee.
