# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 10.2024.4  
**Subject:** WCA Appeals Committee  
**Intent:** Rights and duties of the WCA Appeals Committee  
**Submitted by:** WCA Board  
**Date:** August 1, 2024  

# Motion

The WCA Appeals Committee is an Advisory Committee of the WCA.

1. The WCA Appeals Committee has the following rights and duties:
   1. Forming a Board of Appeal for a dispute. A Board of Appeal is a temporary group to carry out the appeals processes described in [WCA Motion : Disputes](wca{documents/motions/16.2021.1 - Disputes.pdf}).
      2. A Board of Appeal shall be made up of three members of the WCA Appeals Committee.
      3. The Leader of the WCA Appeals Committee determines the members of the Board of Appeal for each dispute.
      4. Members of the WCA Appeals Committee who have a conflict of interest for a specific dispute shall be ineligible from selection to that specific Board of Appeal.
      5. A Board of Appeal shall have all the rights and duties assigned to the WCA Appeals Committee and shall have the full right to represent the committee in the appeals process.
   2. Performing independent investigations regarding appealed incidents.
   3. Making decisions on disciplinary actions in relation to appealed incidents.
   4. Informing the WCA Board on appeals, investigations, decisions, and disciplinary actions.
   5. Publishing public information on the appeals, investigations, decisions, and disciplinary actions where necessary.
   6. Administering and maintaining records of the appeals, investigations, the reports, the decisions, and the disciplinary actions.
   7. Additional duties as directed by the WCA Board.
2. All WCA Staff and Registered Speedcubers must fully cooperate with investigations by the WCA Appeals Committee.
3. In case the WCA Appeals Committee is not constituted or for any reason non-functional, the WCA Board may appoint select WCA Staff to handle cases of appeal.
   1. The WCA Appeals Committee shall be deemed non-functional for any appeal where it is unable to cary out the appeals process in an unbiased manner.
4. The WCA Appeals Committee will take the role of WCA Integrity Committee in case the WCA Integrity Committee is not constituted or for any reason non-functional.
      1. For any period where the WCA Appeals Committee assumes the role of the WCA Integrity Committee the WCA Board may appoint specific WCA Staff to handle cases of appeal.
5. Reducing conflicts of roles:
   1. If all bodies are constituted and functional there must not exist an overlap in members of the WCA Board, WCA Integrity Committee, and WCA Appeals Committee unless the Board is temporarily required to lead, due to that Committee not having a Leader.
   2. If all bodies are constituted and functional there must not exist an overlap in members of the WCA Regulations Committee, and WCA Appeals Committee.
6. Eligibility for membership:
   1. To be eligble to serve as a member of the WCA Appeals Committee the candidate must have served a period of at least 12 consecutive months as a member of WCA Staff.
      1. Candidates do not need to be current members of WCA Staff at the time of their appointment.
