# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 10.2018.1  
**Subject:** WCA Marketing Team  
**Intent:** Rights and duties of the WCA Marketing Team  
**Submitted by:** Board of Directors  
**Date:** July 31, 2018  

# Motion

The WCA Marketing Team is an Advisory Committee of the WCA.

1. The WCA Marketing Team is responsible for developing and managing the WCA Brand, seeking sponsorships, supporting the distribution of WCA Competition Gear, and marketing WCA Merchandise.

2. The WCA Marketing Team has the following rights and duties:
   - 2.1. Developing and managing the WCA Brand:
      - 2.1.1. Registering and maintaining “World Cube Association” as an international trademark.
      - 2.1.2. Developing, supervising, and improving the WCA Brand visibility and image in WCA Competitions, media, internet, social networks, and any other available communication channels.
      - 2.1.3. Designing and providing the WCA representatives with WCA Apparel.
         - 2.1.3.1. Developing and maintaining guidelines on who can wear the WCA Apparel, when, and under which conditions.
   - 2.2. Seeking sponsorships:
      - 2.2.1. Seeking long term, global sponsorships with Corporate Sponsors.
      - 2.2.2. Providing guidelines and best practices to WCA representatives for seeking local sponsorships.
   - 2.3. Supporting the distribution of WCA Competition Gear:
      - 2.3.1. Supporting WCA representatives with equipment and decoration materials for WCA Competitions.
         - 2.3.1.1. Developing and maintaining clear guidelines on to whom and under which conditions the WCA Gear can be supplied.
      - 2.3.2. Actively seeking for the best prices and strategies for the distribution of the WCA Competition Gear.
      - 2.3.3. Monitoring the quality and the compliance of the WCA Competition Gear, reporting to suppliers or manufacturers, and advising the WCA Regulations Committee about possible updates in the appropriate Regulations.
   - 2.4. Marketing WCA Merchandise:
      - 2.4.1. Advertising and selling WCA Merchandise to the WCA Community worldwide.
