# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 10.2024.10  
**Subject:** WCA Results Team  
**Intent:** Rights and duties of the WCA Results Team  
**Submitted by:** WCA Board 
**Date:** August 1, 2024 

# Motion

The WCA Results Team is an Advisory Committee of the WCA with the following rights and duties:

1. Management of WCA data, including but not limited to:
   1. WCA Competition Results
      1. Posting competition results: Verifying, revising and publishing competition results submitted by WCA Delegates.
      2. Verifying and executing corrections to competition results upon request by authorized parties or based on evidence of errors.
      3. Recognizing and administering the personal, national, continental, and world records per event.
      4. Recognizing and administering the national, continental, and world rankings per event.
      5. Supporting WCA Delegates to submit high quality result files.
   2. Registered Speedcubers
      1. Managing the personal data (e.g. name, citizenship, date of birth, gender) of Registered Speedcubers.
      2. Verifying and executing change requests to personal data upon request by authorized parties.
      3. Reviewing and approving profile avatars for Registered Speedcuber profile pages.
   3. Data Quality
      1. Performing regular sanity checks to discover and resolve data integrity problems.
      2. Performing investigations and data cleaning projects to enhance the quality of the data in the databases of the WCA.
      3. Deciding on and rectifying errors, gaps and anomalies detected in the data of the WCA.
   4. Data Analysis
      1. Analyzing the data in the databases of the WCA for informational and promotional purposes, and for other purposes upon request of Staff Members.
2. Protection of WCA data, including but not limited to:
   1. Creation, implementation, and enforcement of all WCA Data Protection policies:
      1. Researching regulations globally to ensure the WCA adopts policy requirements to satisfy all global regulations.
      2. Engaging with legal counsel on all matters relating to Data Protection with WCA Board approval.
      3. Understanding the scope of which Data Protection policies are required and duly advising the WCA Board.
   2. Acting as WCA liaison for Data Protection matters:
      1. Managing requests from Registered Speedcubers and WCA Staff on Data Protection.
         1. Managing requests relating to a data subject’s right to be forgotten.
         2. Managing requests relating to disclosure of information the WCA holds for data. subjects.
         3. Answering general queries with regard to Data Protection.
      2. Liaison with outside parties and agencies with regard to Data Protection.
         1. The WCA Results Team Leader shall appoint a Data Protection Officer (DPO) for jurisdictions that require one.
3. Additional duties as directed by the WCA Board.
