# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 10.2022.3  
**Subject:** WCA Disciplinary Committee  
**Intent:** Rights and duties of the WCA Disciplinary Committee  
**Submitted by:** WCA Board  
**Date:** May 1, 2022  

# Motion

The WCA Disciplinary Committee is an Advisory Committee of the WCA.

1. The WCA Disciplinary Committee has the following rights and duties:
   1. Investigations
      1. Performing independent investigations regarding WCA Staff and Community members.
         1. The subjects of the investigations are incidents during WCA Competitions, incidents related to WCA Competitions, or incidents within the WCA Community. Incidents are alleged violations of the Spirit and/or Regulations of the WCA.
      2. Delivering an independent report on the investigations.
      3. Involving the WCA Ethics Committee in case any WCA Staff Member is suspected of acts against the Spirit of the WCA or not compliant with the Code of Ethics.
      4. Making decisions on disciplinary actions in relation to the investigated incidents. See [WCA Motion : Suspensions and other Sanctions](wca{documents/motions/15.2020.1 - Suspensions and other Sanctions.pdf}).
   2. Confidant
      1. Being the confidential contact for Community members and WCA Staff, in case of important personal matters that are related to WCA activities.
   3. Information and administration
      1. Informing the WCA Board on investigations, decisions, and disciplinary actions.
      2. Publishing public information on the investigations, decisions, and disciplinary actions.
      3. Managing and administrating investigations, reports, decisions, and disciplinary actions.
      4. Keeping all information confidential that needs to stay confidential, based on internal and external guidelines
2. All WCA Staff must fully cooperate with investigations by the WCA Disciplinary Committee.
3. All Community members must fully cooperate with investigations by the WCA Disciplinary Committee.
   1. All Community members should respond to emails sent on behalf of the WCA Disciplinary Committee within one week of each message.
      1. A Community members must inform the WCA Disciplinary Committee or the WCA Board if they decide to stop responding to the WCA Disciplinary Committee and explain as to the reasons why.
4. The WCA Disciplinary Committee will take the role of WCA Ethics Committee in case the WCA Ethics Committee is not constituted or for any reason non-functional.
5. In case the WCA Disciplinary Committee is not constituted or for any reason non-functional, the WCA Ethics Committee will act as WCA Disciplinary Committee.
6. Reducing conflicts of roles
   1. There may be no overlap in members of the WCA Board, WCA Disciplinary Committee, and WCA Ethics Committee unless the Board is temporarily required to lead, due to that Committee not having a Leader.
