# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 10.2017.7  
**Subject:** WCA Disciplinary Committee  
**Intent:** Rights and duties of the WCA Disciplinary Committee  
**Submitted by:** Board of Directors  
**Date:** July 1, 2017  

# Motion

The WCA Disciplinary Committee is an Advisory Committee of the WCA.

1. The WCA Disciplinary Committee has the following rights and duties:
   - 1.1. Investigations
      - 1.1.1. Performing independent investigations regarding WCA Staff, External Staff and Registered Speedcubers.
         - 1.1.1.1. The subjects of the investigations are incidents during WCA Competitions, incidents related to WCA Competitions, or incidents within the WCA Community. Incidents are alleged violations of the Spirit and/or Regulations of the WCA.
      - 1.1.2. Delivering an independent report on the investigations.
      - 1.1.3. Involving the WCA Ethics Committee in case any WCA Staff Member or External Staff Member is suspected of acts against the Spirit of the WCA or not compliant with Ethical codes.
      - 1.1.4. Making decisions on disciplinary actions in relation to the investigated incidents. See [WCA Motion : Suspensions and other Sanctions](./15-Suspensions_and_other_Sanctions.md).
   - 1.2. Confidant
      - 1.2.1. Being the confidential contact for Registered Speedcubers, WCA Staff and External Staff, in case of important personal matters that are related to WCA activities.
   - 1.3. Information and administration
      - 1.3.1. Informing the WCA Board on investigations, decisions, and disciplinary actions.
      - 1.3.2. Publishing public information on the investigations, decisions, and disciplinary actions.
      - 1.3.3. Managing and administrating investigations, reports, decisions, and disciplinary actions.
      - 1.3.4. Keeping all information confidential that needs to stay confidential, based on internal and external guidelines

2. All WCA Staff and External Staff must fully cooperate with investigations by the WCA Disciplinary Committee.

3. All Registered Speedcubers should fully cooperate with investigations by the WCA Disciplinary Committee.

4. The WCA Disciplinary Committee will take the role of WCA Ethics Committee in case the WCA Ethics Committee is not constituted or for any reason non-functional.
