# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 10.2019.5  
**Subject:** WCA Data Protection Committee  
**Intent:** Rights and duties of the WCA Data Protection Committee  
**Submitted by:** Board of Directors  
**Date:** June 1, 2019  

# Motion

The WCA Data Protection Committee is an Advisory Committee of the WCA.

1. The WCA Data Protection Committee is responsible for all matters relating to Data Protection.
2. The WCA Data Protection Committee has the following rights and duties:
   1. Creation, implementation, and enforcement of all WCA Data Protection policies:
      1. Researching regulations globally to ensure the WCA adopts the policy requirements to satisfy all global regulations.
      2. Engaging with legal council on all matters relating to Data Protection with WCA Board approval.
      3. Understanding the scope of which Data Protection policies are required and duly advising the WCA Board.
   2. Acting as WCA liaison for Data Protection matters:
      1. Managing requests from Registered Speedcubers and WCA Staff on Data Protection
         1. Managing requests relating to data subject’s right to be forgotten.
            1. Liaison with the WRT to request data subject's personal data be removed or anonymized within the WCA Database.
         2. Managing requests relating to disclosure of information the WCA holds for data subjects.
         3. Answering general queries with regard to Data Protection.
      2. Liaison with outside parties and agencies with regard to Data Protection.
         1. The WDPC Committee Leader is the Data Protection Officer (DPO) for each jurisdiction that requires one.
