# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 10.2017.0  
**Subject:** WCA Committees and Teams  
**Intent:** Definition of WCA Committees and Teams  
**Submitted by:** Board of Directors  
**Date:** July 1, 2017  

# Motion

The WCA will have Committees and/or Teams that have the role of Advisory Committee as described in the Bylaws.

1. The Committees and Teams are responsible for operational activities of the WCA. Any reference to a Team should be understood to also be a reference to a Committee and vice versa.

2. All WCA Committees and Teams shall be formed for an indefinite period, unless otherwise decided by the WCA Board of Directors.

3. Each WCA Committee and Team will have a direct relationship with at least one Director for management, communication, and escalation.

4. Each WCA Committee and Team shall have one Leader.
   - 4.1. The Leader of every WCA Committee and Team is chosen by the WCA Board of Directors, based on a voting in the WCA Board of Directors with at least supermajority, after a request for applications among the Members and Candidate Delegates.
      - 4.1.1. The choice of the new Committee Leader must be confirmed in a vote among the Senior Delegates and all other sitting Committee Leaders with a majority.
      - 4.1.2. After confirmation, the Committee Leader will be appointed by the WCA Board of Directors.
      - 4.1.3. In case there is no majority, another Leader must be proposed by the WCA Board of Directors.
   - 4.2. The Committee Leader is responsible for:
      - 4.2.1. Making sure the Committee and the Committee Members are capable, equipped, and available for performing the duties of the Committee.
      - 4.2.2. Selecting, appointing, and removing Committee Members.
      - 4.2.3. Managing day-to-day processes of the Committee.
      - 4.2.4. Planning of the activities of the Committee.
      - 4.2.5. Making sure activities are run according to the planning.
      - 4.2.6. Reporting periodically and ad hoc to the WCA Board of Directors.
      - 4.2.7. Managing the decision making about topics within the Committee. If necessary, decisions can be made based on either consensus decision-making or based on majority voting with all Committee Members having equal voting rights.
   - 4.3. Withdrawal of appointment of Committee Leader:
      - 4.3.1. A Committee Leader may withdraw their appointment any time by submitting a message to the WCA Board of Directors.
      - 4.3.2. A Committee Leader automatically loses their appointment after being a Committee Leader for 24 months, unless the WCA Board of Directors extends the appointment, one or more times, for an additional time frame of at most 24 months.
      - 4.3.3. The WCA Board of Directors shall have the right to withdraw the appointment of a Committee Leader, if the Committee Leader does not comply with the rights and duties of Committee Leader, after advisory consultation by the WCA Ethics Committee.
         - 4.3.3.1. For the withdrawal of the WCA Ethics Committee Leader, the WCA Board of Directors will ask for advisory consultation to the WCA Disciplinary Committee.
         - 4.3.3.2. If none of these consultations is possible due to the inexistence of these Committees or because these Committees are not functional, the WCA Board of Directors will proceed without consultation.

5. All members of the Committee shall communicate with a carbon copy (CC) to all the other members of the Committee.
