# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 10.2024.9  
**Subject:** WCA Regulations Committee  
**Intent:** Rights and duties of the WCA Regulations Committee  
**Submitted by:** WCA Board  
**Date:** August 1, 2024  

# Motion

The WCA Regulations Committee is an Advisory Committee of the WCA with the following rights and duties:

1. Managing the maintenance of the Regulations of the WCA, containing all regulations that must be followed in and around WCA Competitions.
   1. The Regulations should contain all clear, concise, normative rules as a proper standard for WCA Competitions.
2. Producing and publishing new versions of the Regulations on a periodic basis, based on feedback from WCA Staff and Registered Speedcubers, their own insights, and incidents that happened during WCA Competitions. Such rights must be exercised in accordance with [WCA Motion : Amendments of Regulations](wcadoc{documents/motions/14.2022.1 - Amendments of Regulations.pdf}).
3. Delivering interim updates of the Regulations in case of urgent changes or clerical errors.
4. Resolving issues with the Regulations, based on feedback from the Community and from reports of WCA Competitions.
5. Decision making on incidents that happened during WCA Competitions, based on feedback from the Community, WCA Staff, Registered Speedcubers, or reports of WCA Competitions.
6. Decision making on the interpretation of the Regulations, if any unforeseen, uncovered, or unresolved incident happens during WCA Competitions.
7. Advising the WCA Community on the correct application of the Regulations.
8. Encouraging members of the WCA Community to create and maintain translations of the Regulations, and steering the process of publishing those translations.
9. Reducing conflicts of roles:
    1. If all bodies are constituted and functional there must not exist an overlap in members of the WCA Regulations Committee, and WCA Appeals Committee
10. Additional duties as directed by the WCA Board.
