# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 10.2021.0  
**Subject:** WCA Committees and Teams  
**Intent:** Definition of WCA Committees and Teams  
**Submitted by:** WCA Board  
**Date:** February 28, 2021

# Motion

The WCA will have Committees and/or Teams that have the role of Advisory Committee as described in the Bylaws.

1. The Committees and Teams are responsible for operational activities of the WCA. Any reference to a Team should be understood to also be a reference to a Committee and vice versa.
2. All WCA Committees and Teams shall be formed for an indefinite period, unless otherwise decided by the WCA Board.
3. Each WCA Committee and Team will have a direct relationship with at least one Director for management, communication, and escalation.
4. Each WCA Committee and Team shall have one Leader.
   1. In the case a Committee or Team does not have a leader it will be led by the WCA Board.
   2. The Leader of every WCA Committee and Team is chosen by the WCA Board, based on a voting in the WCA Board with at least supermajority, after a request for applications among the Community.
      1. Senior Delegates and Committee/Team Leaders must be provided with at least a one week time period to question, interview, and debate with the proposed candidate.
      2. The choice of the new Committee/Team Leader must be confirmed in a vote among all the Senior Delegates and Committee/Team Leaders after the debate period has ended:
         1. There must be an effective participation strictly above 50% of the total eligible voters for the vote to be considered valid.
         2. There must be an option to abstain.
         3. A majority of votes cast must be affirmative for the vote to pass.
      3. After confirmation, the Committee/Team Leader will be appointed by the WCA Board.
      4. In case there is no majority to confirm the selection, another candidate may be proposed by the WCA Board.
   3. The Committee Leader is responsible for:
      1. Making sure the Committee and the Committee Members are capable, equipped, and available for performing the duties of the Committee.
      2. Selecting, appointing, promoting, demoting, and removing Committee Members.
      3. Managing day-to-day processes of the Committee.
      4. Planning of the activities of the Committee.
      5. Making sure activities are run according to the planning.
      6. Reporting periodically and ad hoc to the WCA Board.
      7. Managing the decision making about topics within the Committee. If necessary, decisions can be made based on either consensus decision-making or based on majority voting with all Committee Members having equal voting rights.
   4. Withdrawal of appointment of Committee Leader:
      1. A Committee Leader may withdraw their appointment any time by submitting a resignation to the WCA Board.
      2. A Committee Leader automatically loses their appointment after being a Committee Leader for 24 months, unless the WCA Board extends the appointment, one or more times, for an additional time frame of at most 24 months.
      3. The WCA Board shall have the right to withdraw the appointment of a Committee Leader, if the Committee Leader does not comply with the rights and duties of Committee Leader, after advisory consultation by the WCA Ethics Committee.
         1. For the withdrawal of the WCA Ethics Committee Leader, the WCA Board will ask for advisory consultation to the WCA Disciplinary Committee.
         2. If none of these consultations is possible due to the inexistence of these Committees or because these Committees are not functional, the WCA Board will proceed without consultation.
      4. After a Committee Leader appointment has been withdrawn, the person remains as a Committee/Team Senior Member of the respective Committee/Team.
5. Each WCA Committee and Team may have one or more Senior Member(s).
   1. Appointment of Committee/Team Senior Member:
      1. Committee/Team Members are eligible for promotion to Committee/Team Senior Members after they have served at least 1 year, cumulatively, as a Staff Member.
      2. A Committee Leader may nominate a member for the status of Committee/Team Senior Member if the Leader judges that the member has shown their fitness for the position.
      3. To promote a Committee/Team Member to Committee/Team Senior Member, the Committee Leader must submit the corresponding application to the WCA Board.
      4. The WCA Board approves or rejects the application.
      5. After approval, the Committee Leader appoints the person as Committee/Team Senior Member.
   2. A Committee/Team Senior Member appointment is automatically withdrawn after the person is no longer a Committee/Team Member of the respective Committee/Team.
6. All members of the Committee shall communicate with a carbon copy (CC) to all the other members of the Committee.
