# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 10.2021.10  
**Subject:** WCA Results Team  
**Intent:** Rights and duties of the WCA Results Team  
**Submitted by:** WCA Board 
**Date:** February 28, 2021  

# Motion

The WCA Results Team is an Advisory Committee of the WCA with the following rights and duties:

1. Management of Data
   1. Managing the data in the databases of the WCA.
   2. Managing the administration of Registered Speedcubers and Registered Speedcuber profile pages.
   3. Managing the data quality of the databases of the WCA.
   4. Analysing the data in the databases of the WCA for informational and promotional purposes, and for other purposes upon request of Staff Members.
2. Management of Results
   1. Managing competition results and results files.
   2. Managing corrections to competition results.
   3. Supporting WCA Delegates to deliver high quality results files.
3. Management of Rankings
   1. Recognizing and administering the personal, national, continental, and world records per event.
   2. Recognizing and administering the national, continental, and world rankings per event.
4. All matters relating to Data Protection:
   1. Creation, implementation, and enforcement of all WCA Data Protection policies:
      1. Researching regulations globally to ensure the WCA adopts the policy requirements to satisfy all global regulations.
      2. Engaging with legal council on all matters relating to Data Protection with WCA Board approval.
      3.  Understanding the scope of which Data Protection policies are required and duly advising the WCA Board.
   2. Acting as WCA liaison for Data Protection matters:
      1. Managing requests from Registered Speedcubers and WCA Staff on Data Protection
         1. Managing requests relating to data subject’s right to be forgotten.
            1. Liaison with the WRT to request data subject’s personal data be removed or anonymized within the WCA Database. 
         2. Managing requests relating to disclosure of information the WCA holds for data subjects.
         3. Answering general queries with regard to Data Protection.
      2. Liaison with outside parties and agencies with regard to Data Protection.
         1. The WCA Results Team Leader shall appoint a Data Protection Officer (DPO) for each jurisdiction that requires one.
