# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 13.2017.1  
**Subject:** Amendments of Bylaws and Motions  
**Intent:** Definition of the Amendment Procedure of the Bylaws and the Motions  
**Submitted by:** Board of Directors  
**Date:** July 1, 2017  

# Motion

Any reference to amending the Bylaws should be understood to also be a reference to amending the Motions and vice versa.

1. Only the WCA Board of Directors shall be entitled to make amendments to the Bylaws.

2. The WCA Board of Directors shall manage the following process of amendment of Bylaws:
   - 2.1. Gathering potential changes to the Bylaws based on feedback from WCA Staff, External Staff, Registered Speedcubers, the WCA Community, and own insight.
   - 2.2. Documenting the gathered potential changes and making them publicly available to WCA Staff and External Staff.
   - 2.3. Making a selection from the gathered potential changes and proposing these changes as an amendment to the Bylaws.
   - 2.4. Asking feedback among WCA Staff and External Staff for proposed changes, during a period of at least two weeks.
   - 2.5. Compiling the following documents:
      - 2.5.1. a new complete set of Bylaws
      - 2.5.2. a final set of included changes
      - 2.5.3. a summary of the included changes
   - 2.6. Approving the Bylaws, based on a voting in the WCA Board of Directors with a unanimous decision.
      - 2.6.1. If the WCA Board of Directors does not approve the Bylaws, then the process will stop.
   - 2.7. Having the Bylaws approved by the WCA Voting Members, based on a voting among all the WCA Voting Members, with a supermajority.
      - 2.7.1. All the WCA Members with voting rights at the start of the voting are eligible to vote.
      - 2.7.2. There must be an effective participation strictly above 50% of the total eligible voters for the voting to be considered valid.
      - 2.7.3. If the WCA Voting Members do not approve the Bylaws, the process will stop.
   - 2.8. The approved Bylaws and Amendments of the Bylaws must be announced and made publicly accessible via the online services of the WCA.
   - 2.9. The WCA Board of Directors shall register the approved Bylaws with the legal parties.
