# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 15.2021.1  
**Subject:** Suspensions and other Sanctions  
**Intent:** Definition of Suspensions and other Sanctions  
**Submitted by:** Board of Directors  
**Date:** February 28, 2021  

# Motion

1. The WCA Disciplinary Committee shall have the following rights and duties, based on a Voting in the WCA Disciplinary Committee with a supermajority:
   1. to suspend a Registered Speedcuber from participation in or attendance of a WCA Competition or specific events of WCA Competitions, for a fixed period or until a specified set of circumstances changes or ceases to exist.
   2. to caution or censure a Registered Speedcuber.
   3. to issue fines against a Registered Speedcuber and suspend a Registered Speedcuber from participation in a WCA Competition until the fines are paid.
      1. Fines must only be issued if acts of the Registered Speedcuber caused financial damage or financial loss to the WCA or any organization or individual within WCA Community.
      2. The fine must not be larger than the actual damage or loss.
   4. to withhold or withdraw prizes and honors (records, titles, medals, certificates) from a Registered Speedcuber.
   5. to disqualify a Registered Speedcuber or specific results of a Registered Speedcuber during and/or after a WCA Competition.
   6. to exclude a Registered Speedcuber from meetings and competitions of the WCA.
   7. to reinstate a Registered Speedcuber who has been sanctioned under 1.1 to 1.6, before the end of the fixed period or before the set of circumstances specified has changed or ceased to exist. WDC must communicate each reinstatement to WCA Board of Directors with a clear motivation.
2. The WDC may exercise its suspensive rights under this Motion only if:
   1. a Registered Speedcuber has failed to pay fees for WCA Competitions, or
   2. in the opinion of the WDC, the Registered Speedcuber is in breach of the Bylaws, Motions, or Regulations, or
   3. the conduct of the Registered Speedcuber breaches or remains in breach of the Mission, Spirit, and/or Objectives of the WCA, or
   4. the WDC considers that the Registered Speedcuber does not fulfil the requirements of eligibility for registration as a Registered Speedcuber.
3. Before the WDC may exercise its suspensive rights under this Motion, the Registered Speedcuber must have been sent notice of the grounds and must have been given the opportunity to be heard by a WCA Delegate, the WCA Disciplinary Committee, or the WCA Board.
4. A Registered Speedcuber who has been suspended by the WDC under this Motion may request for reinstatement by the WDC, with a motivation of the request.
5. A Registered Speedcuber who has been suspended by the WDC under this Motion shall automatically cease to be suspended at the end of the fixed period, or once, in the opinion of the WDC, the set of circumstances specified has changed or ceases to exist.
6. The WCA Ethics Committee shall have the following rights and duties, based on a Voting in the WCA Ethics Committee with a supermajority:
   1. to issue fines against a Registered Speedcuber and suspend a Registered Speedcuber from participation in a WCA Competition until the fines are paid.
      1. Fines must only be issued if acts of the Registered Speedcuber caused financial damage or financial loss to the WCA or any organization or individual within the WCA Community.
      2. The fine must not be larger than the actual damage or loss.
   2. to disqualify a Registered Speedcuber or specific results of a Registered Speedcuber during and/or after a WCA Competition.
   3. to reinstate a Registered Speedcuber who has been sanctioned under 1.1 to 1.2, before the end of the fixed period or before the set of circumstances specified has changed or ceased to exsit. WEC must communicate each reinstatement to WCA Board of Directors with a clear motivation.
7. The WEC may exercise its suspensive rights under this Motion only if:
   1. a Registered Speedcuber has failed to pay fees for WCA Competitions, or
   2. in the opinion of the WEC, the Registered Speedcuber is in breach of the Bylaws, Motions, Regulations, or Code of Ethics, or
   3. the conduct of the Registered Speedcuber breaches or remains in breach of the Mission, Spirit, and/or Objectives of the WCA, or
   4. the WEC considers that the Registered Speedcuber does not fulfill the requirements of eligibility for registration as a Registered Speedcuber.
8. Before the WEC may exercise its suspensive rights under this Motion, the Registered Speedcuber must have been sent notice of the grounds and must have been given the opportunity to be heard by a WCA Delegate, the WCA Ethics Committee, or the WCA Board.
9. A Registered Speedcuber who has been suspended by the WEC under this Motion may request for reinstatement by the WEC, with a motivation of the request.
10. A Registered Speedcuber who has been suspended by the WEC under this Motion shall automatically cease to be suspended at the end of the fixed period, or once, in the opinion of the WEC, the set of circumstances specified has changed or ceases to exist.
11. The WCA Board of Directors shall have the following rights, based on a voting in the WCA Board of Directors with a supermajority:
   1. to remove or deny accreditation, appointment, or acknowledgement of Staff, Registered Speedcubers, or Partners.
   2. to impose any sanction that the WCA Board of Directors deems to be appropriate on Staff, Registered Speedcubers, or Partners.
