# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 16.2020.1  
**Subject:** Disputes  
**Intent:** Definition of the Processes in case of Disputes  
**Submitted by:** Board of Directors  
**Date:** September 30, 2020  

# Motion

1. All acts and decisions of WCA Staff may be subject to disputes by affected individuals.
   1. Disputes regarding the WCA Regulations must be directed to and handled by WCA Regulations Committee, and are bound by the provisions of the WCA Regulations.
      1. Appeals regarding the final decision must be directed to and handled by WCA Board of Directors.
   2. Disputes regarding the WCA Bylaws and the Motions should be directed to and handled by WCA Board of Directors, and are bound by the provisions of the WCA Bylaws and the Motions and the applicable governing laws.
      1. Appeals regarding the final decision should be directed to and handled by WCA Ethics Committee.
   3. All other Disputes should be directed to and handled by WCA Disciplinary Committee, and are bound by the WCA Regulations, the WCA Bylaws and the Motions, and the applicable governing laws.
      1. Appeals regarding the final decision should be directed to and handled by WCA Ethics Committee.
2. Disputes must be filed within sixty days after the disputed act or decision.
3. Disputes must be handled within sixty days of the date of dispute.
4. Appeals to decisions on disputes must be filed within sixty days after the decision.
5. Appeals must be handled within sixty days of the date of appeal.
6. During the process of disputes and appeals all involved parties should be heard.
7. The decisions on disputes and appeals will take immediate effect and all WCA Staff, Registered Speedcubers, and Partners must take all necessary actions to ensure that the decisions come into effect.
