# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 20.2019.1  
**Subject:** WCA Advisory Council  
**Intent:** Rights and duties of the WCA Advisory Council  
**Submitted by:** Board of Directors  
**Date:** January 1, 2019  

# Motion

The WCA Advisory Council is an Advisory Council of the WCA.

1. The WCA Advisory Council is responsible for building and maintaining bilateral communication between the WCA Community and the WCA Staff.
2. The WCA Advisory Council has the following rights and duties:
   1. Establishing communication channels between the WCA Community and the WCA Board, providing direct feedback from Registered Speedcubers about the WCA operations.
      1. The WCA Advisory Council shall ensure that the demands and requests of the WCA Community are heard and addressed by WCA Staff.
   2. Recruiting Community Members who are able and willing to help improve the WCA operations.
   3. Improving and further promoting transparency in the WCA.
   4. Improving bilateral communication between the WCA Community and WCA Staff.
3. The WCA Advisory Council shall have the following types of representatives:
   1. Community Representatives
      1. Representing the Community Members in a public forum.
      2. Reporting the most important discussions among the Community Members to the WCA Advisory Council and to the WCA Board.
      3. Community Representatives must not be WCA Staff.
   2. WCA Staff Representatives
      1. Representing the WCA Staff.
      2. Reporting the most important issues among the WCA Staff to the WCA Advisory Council and to the WCA Board.
      3. WCA Staff Representatives must be WCA Staff.
