# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 20.2021.0  
**Subject:** WCA Councils  
**Intent:** Definition of WCA Councils  
**Submitted by:** WCA Board  
**Date:** February 28, 2021  

# Motion

The WCA will have Councils that have the role of Advisory Council as described in the Bylaws.

1. The Councils are responsible for advising to the WCA Board.
2. All WCA Councils shall be formed for an indefinite period, unless otherwise decided by the WCA Board.
3. Each WCA Council will have a direct relationship with at least one Director for management, communication, and escalation.
4. Each WCA Council shall have one Leader.
   1. In the case a Council does not have a leader it will be led by the WCA Board.
   2. The Leader of every WCA Council is chosen by the WCA Board, based on a voting in the WCA Board with at least supermajority, after a request for applications among the Community.
   3. The Council Leader is responsible for:
      1. Making sure the Council and the Council Members are capable, equipped, and available for performing the duties of the Council.
      2. Selecting, appointing, and removing Council Members.
      3. Managing day-to-day processes of the Council.
      4. Planning of the activities of the Council.
      5. Making sure activities are run according to the planning.
      6. Reporting periodically and ad hoc to the WCA Board.
      7. Managing the decision making about topics within the Council. If necessary, decisions can be made based on either consensus decision-making or based on majority voting with all Council Members having equal voting rights.
   4. Withdrawal of appointment of Council Leader:
      1. A Council Leader may withdraw their appointment any time by submitting a resignation to the WCA Board.
      2. A Council Leader automatically loses their appointment after being a Council Leader for 24 months. The WCA Board may choose to extend the appointment, one or more times, given the following:
         1. The maximum extension is 24 months.
         2. The maximum appointment length is 48 months.
      4. The WCA Board shall have the right to withdraw the appointment of a Council Leader, if the Council Leader does not comply with the rights and duties of Council Leader, after advisory consultation by the WCA Ethics Committee.
         1. If the consultation is not possible due to the inexistence of this Committee or because this Committee is not functional, the WCA Board will proceed without consultation.
5. All members of the Council shall communicate with a carbon copy (CC) to all the other members of the Council.
