# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 21.2024.1  
**Subject:** WCA Documents  
**Intent:** Establish priorities and amendment procedures of WCA Documents  
**Submitted by:** Motion has been removed and all responsibilities will be absorbed by the WCA Results Team.  
**Date:** August 1, 2024

# Motion

1. WCA Documents are comprised of:
   1. WCA Bylaws
   2. WCA Motions
   3. WCA Regulations and Guidelines
   4. WCA Policies
   5. Other WCA material - as listed on the Documents page of the WCA Webiste.
2. In case of any dispute between two WCA Documents the order of priority shall be established in line with the order of documents in section 1 of this motion.
3. In case of any dispute between two WCA Documents with the same priority, the WCA Board shall determine which document takes precedence.
4. In case of any dispute between two translations of the same document the American English version is definitive.
5. Amendments of WCA Documents:
   1. WCA Bylaws shall be amended by the procedures set out in section 12 of the Bylaws.
   2. WCA Motions shall be amended by the procedures set out in Motion 13.2022.1 Amendments of Motions.
   3. WCA Regulations and Guidelines shall be amended by the procedures set out in Motion 14.2022.1 Amendments of Regulations.
   4. WCA Policies shall be amended by a majority vote among the WCA Board.
   5. Other WCA Material shall be amended as necessary with approval of the WCA Board.
6. Management of WCA Documents:  
   1. The management and upkeep of all WCA Documents is the responsibility of the WCA Board
      1. The WCA Board may appoint a separate group to manage specific documents.
