# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 22.2022.1  
**Subject:** Major Championship Selection  
**Intent:** Define the WCA Major Championship selection process  
**Submitted by:** WCA Board  
**Date:** May 1, 2022  

# Motion

Major Championship host cities are selected via a bidding procedure that is initiated and led by the Board of Directors. 

1. Major Championship events include WCA Continental Championships and the WCA World Championships.
   1. WCA Continental Championships shall be held in even numbered years.
   2. WCA World Championship shall be held in odd numbered years.
2. At the start of the bidding procedure the WCA Board will announce which Championships are available for bidding, along with a deadline for applicants to submit bid documents.
3. Applications must be made by a WCA Regional Organization.
4. Applications for Major Championship events must address the following topics in relation to the competition:
   1. Location
   2. Dates
   3. Organizational Team
   4. Finances
5. Once applications are closed the WCA Board will assemble a selection committee.
   1. The selection committee must have at least 5 members.
   2. All Directors who are not involved in an application for a Major Championship will be members of the selection committee.
   3. The WCA Board will ask for volunteers from WCA Leaders and Senior Delegates to fill the remaining slots on the selection committee.
6. Once a selection committee is formed they will determine which applicants will proceed to an interview. The selection committee will conduct interviews with application teams to gain a better understanding of the proposed event.
7. Once the selection committee has conducted interviews with the application teams they will vote to select a host city.
8. In the case that no applications are selected the WCA Board may open another application period at a later date.
