# SUBMISSION OF PROPOSED MOTION

**Motion number:** 22.2024.1  
**Subject:** Major Championship Selection  
**Intent:** Define the WCA Major Championship selection process  
**Submitted by:** WCA Board  
**Date:** August 1, 2024

# Motion

Major Championship host cities are selected via a bidding procedure that is initiated by the WCA Board and led by the WCA Major Championship Team. 

1. Major Championship events include WCA Continental Championships and the WCA World Championships.
   1. WCA Continental Championships shall be held in even numbered years.
   2. WCA World Championship shall be held in odd numbered years.
2. At the start of the bidding procedure the WCA Major Championship Team will announce which Championships are available for bidding, along with a deadline for applicants to submit bid documents and topics which bid documents must address.
   1. The WCA Major Championship Team may choose to hold an expression of interest period prior to the formal bidding procedure.
3. Applications must be made by a WCA Regional Organization.
4. Once applications are closed the WCA Board will appoint a selection committee based on the recommendation of the WCA Major Championship Team.
   1. The selection committee must have at least 5 members.
   2. The selection committee must have at least: one Director, one representative from the WCA Major Championship Team, and one volunteer from WCA Leaders and Senior Delegates.
   3. Members of the selection committee must not be involved in an application for the Major Championship.
5. Once a selection committee is formed they will determine which applicants will proceed to an interview.
   1. This determination may be informed by information gathered through the expression of interest period (if held), the bid document, and other factors at the discretion of the selection committee.
   2. The selection committee will conduct interviews with application teams to gain a better understanding of the proposed event.
6. Once the selection committee has conducted interviews with the application teams they will vote to select a host city.
7. In the case that no applications are selected the WCA Board may initiate another application period at a later date.
