MINUTES OF MEETING OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF WORLD CUBE ASSOCIATION

A California Nonprofit Public Benefit Corporation

On January 16, 2018 at 1:00 pm PST, the Board of Directors of World Cube Association (the “Board”) met for a regular meeting via Google Hangouts. The following directors were present at the meeting:

Alberto Pérez de Rada Fiol <br>
Luis J. Iáñez <br>
Olivér Perge <br>
Pedro Santos Guimarães <br>
Robert Burton <br>
Ron van Bruchem <br>

<b> NON-PROFIT PROGRESS </b>

Robert Burton updated the Board of Directors on our progress in becoming recognized as a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. Our next step is to file Form 1023 with the IRS. Most of this form is now complete, but we should revisit Part IV of the form to ensure that our narrative provides a clear and complete picture of our activities and how they align with our purpose. Robert will provide samples to the Board of Directors so that we can compare this part to other organizations. It will take the IRS approximately 3-6 months to make a determination for tax exemption. Once Form 1023 is filed, we will file Form CT-1 with the California Registry of Charitable Trusts. Upon receiving our IRS exemption letter, we must file Form 3500A with the California Franchise Tax Board.

<b> REGIONAL ORGANIZATIONS </b>

All Regional Organizations have responded to our inquiry. We must now collect the remaining information from each organization to meet the requirements of our Motion on Regional Organizations.

RESOLVED, that Regional Organizations have a grace period ending on December 31, 2018 to meet all requirements set forth in our Motion on Regional Organizations. If, at the end on that date, any Regional Organizations do not meet the requirements set forth in that Motion, they will no longer be recognized by the World Cube Association.
AVATARS

We discussed the status of the avatars of the WCA Delegates. Some delegates have still not been contacted to change their avatars in cases in which they are depicted in an unprofessional manner.

<b> COMPETITION ANNOUNCEMENT POLICIES </b>

We discussed the competition announcement policies. The Board agreed that we shall analyze each case that is requested to be announced with fewer than 28 days notice.

We determined that we will not ask the WST to lock the registration dates for competitions that are already announced because it is not fair (external sites do not have this restriction) and it would provide only a temporary solution. Robert Burton will put forth a proposal regarding registration in the upcoming days that will handle the issue of fairness.

We previously agreed that we shall vote on all cases in which a competitor limit change is requested for an already announced competition. In future cases, we should make sure that the changes requested are appropriate (and that reasons are provided with such requests).

<b> PROXIMITY POLICY </b>

We discussed the effects of the updated proximity policy that was implemented in November 2017. We noticed that competitors are now traveling shorter distances, but competitions are now larger (with higher competitor limits). We determined that we should not make any change right now and continue to assess the situation. It is predicted that in some time, because of growth, we will have to revisit this policy once again. Some areas continue to have problems, such as the Northeastern United States, in which some competitors do not have the opportunity to participate in competitions because the same competitors seem to go to all of the competitions within their area. Because of this, a limit to the number of competitions that someone may attend within a certain area may be necessary. However, we currently do not have the software needs for such a system implemented, so we cannot enforce such a policy right now.

<b> REDUCING OUR LIABILITY </b>

We discussed the need for placing disclaimers on our website. Vincent suggested that we ask a lawyer to ensure that we are indeed covering ourselves as necessary.

We discussed the need for drafting proposals to outline what content can and cannot be posted on competition websites.

<b> UPDATE TO ARTICLE Z4 </b>

We discussed the proposal to update Article Z4 so that every competition should have a limit. It was mentioned that there are two issues. The first issue is that if organizers do not specify a limit, poor planning can result in too many competitors registering for a competition. The second issue is that sometimes limits are too low, resulting in a competition that does not meet the needs of the local community. One feature that may help the Board determine if competitor limits are appropriate would be a section that shows the number of competitors who competed at past competitions in the area. We should ask the WST to implement this feature.

<b> BOARD TRANSPARENCY </b>

We discussed that scheduling a digest for announcing achievements may force us to write letters in which we include unnecessary information. It was suggested instead that we track our achievements over time and when we feel that we have gathered enough information, we send an email specifying what we have accomplished. This information may be good, neutral, or sometimes negative.

<b> ADJOURNMENT </b>

There being no further business, the meeting was adjourned at 3:10 p.m PST

/s/ Robert Burton

Secretary of the Meeting
